Now in this application we have the login functionality, but so far after the successful login we don't
see any visual reference on UI that lets us know that we are logged in.
The logged in state is an application wide state and a couple of components will be dependent onto that
one.
Let's start with the first visual case.
Let's make sure when we log in, the navigation bar will not be showing the sign up and logging links
anymore.
So let's edit test for this one again.
This scenario will be interacting with different components and parent of those components is the app.
So having the test in the app component as well.
So in the app component, we have the the login block here log described part and we are going to add
the new test to here as well.
But before adding a test, let's refactor the existing part.
So we will be repeating the navigation in each of these tests.
So let's move this let's move this part into the, the setup form here.
So just.
Cutting this and pasting to the first line of the setup form.
So we are navigating to the login page waiting for UI update.
Then we have this testing controller.
Then we are waiting for for a fixture to be stable, which means the login form will be ready.
Then we are filling the form, then we are querying the button.
Now we are not going to do this, but we are going to click to the button.
We will handle the rest in the setup as well, and we will also cut the tick into this one as well.
So this is handling all the and the login success part here.
So instead of having the function name as the setup form, let's say setup setup login and now we are
using the stick here so we can wrap this setup log in with fake async and.
Closing here.
And we don't need this email assignment.
We are not going to have different values for email.
So just removing this forum and going with user one at gmail.com.
And in this test, all we will do is just call a wait, set up, log in.
Now we are not going to wrap the test with fake.
We don't need that anymore because the setup login is already wrapped with it.
So it's going to be handling all the the async thing related to the navigation and the login success.
Then in the end, we will see the home page in this test.
Let's save this one to make sure nothing is broken after this refactor.
And tests are passing.
So let's add our test.
And this is for the the visibility of the looking and sign up so it hides login and sign up from Navarre
after successful login.
So the successful login is this one.
Does it send a good login?
Now we are going to query the visibility of the login and sign up links.
And previously we have done that.
Here.
Like this.
We were querying the the anchors with the title we are looking for.
So I'm just going to copy this one.
And pasting here.
The first thing we are querying is the visibility of log in.
So this is the, let's say log in link.
And the next one is.
Sign up link, which is having the text of title sign up and we expect this login link to be false.
It's not going to be on the page and also signup link won't be visible as well.
So let's save this one.
And this test is failing.
It's login and sign up from our.
So far we are conditionally shoving and hiding some parts in our application, but all happens within
the component.
So the implementation is limited to that component.
But now the login state is not only related to login page, but also whole app needs to know about it.
And also we need to know that information in number so we can show proper links on the navigation bar.
So the links here will be visible conditionally and if a user is logged in, then we are not going to
show the sign up and log in.
So we must be storing this logged in state somewhere in our application.
And the best place to do this is a service class.
So let's create a service class.
Internal using English, Clai and g g generate service.
And we are going to generate a service for authentication and it's going to be under core directory
just like the user service is.
So under core directory there will be authentication and again skipping test for this component as well,
skip tests.
Now the service is created.
Let's open it.
Authentication service.
Now, in the service, we will have a property and let's name it like this logged in user and this will
have the information like ID of user and let's set defaults at the moment and there will be username.
Initially it is empty and email.
This is empty as well.
And also let's have a billion is logged in, which is going to be false initially.
Now when the login is success, let's open the login component here in the on click login.
In this case we are not taking the responsibility, but if we take the responsibility we will see the
username, user ID and email is returned in that one.
So we are going to take that data and pass it to the authentication service.
So let's have a function here and let's, let's name it like this said logged in user.
By the way, we have a type for the the user object.
So if we check the types here, this is the user object type is.
So let's also have a type for for the logged in user as well and we can use the types for this one again.
So let's have a type of logged in user.
And basically this is similar to user object, but also it will have the the the is logged in boolean
so we can define the type like this it is user and and is logged in which is boolean.
So this is the type for for this logged in state and let's use it here.
So the type of this logged in user will be logged in user.
And when we are calling this said logged in user in log in component, we will pass the body which will
contain ID, username and email.
So in.
It's an education service this will be taking, let's say user object type is user and we will update
this logged in user.
And to do that, we can do the assignment like this and we can take everything from user object.
But we also need to set is logged in here.
So is logged in is going to be true.
So the user data is coming from the login component HTTP response and we are adding this is logged in
in this authentication service.
So the function is here, let's use it in login component.
So we need to inject that component that serves here.
So let's have private authentication.
Service type is an education service.
So it is coming from this core folder.
Now here in this on click login we will take the.
The body and there is no type for it.
It is any type.
Now we are going to call this authentication service said logged in user with this body.
But the the typescript is complaining because the type of body is not matching to log the user's parameter
user type.
So we can do casting like this but the as user.
So this is processed like a user object.
So after logging is successful, we are updating the authentication service with the logged in user
data.
Now we are going to use this in a navigation bar.
So let's open the now bar component.
Now we need to inject the authentication service.
Authentication, service authentication.
Let's make sure we import with relative PED because the just tests are failing.
If we have the previous PED, now we have the authentication service and in this authentication service
we have the property of logged in user and we can use that in template.
Let's open the now bar template.
So here we can conditionally display this and basically we will check.
I'm just moving this to the next line.
So N.G., if now we can access to the authentication service and in it we have the logged in user.
Let's open the authentication service.
There is this logged in user and in it there is this is logged in boolean and we can use that is logged
in.
By the way, we are not able to access to the authentication service properties like this because this
is private to the component and we can use it within the component class to use this service.
The injected service in the template, we need to change this private to read only so we will be able
to access to this information.
But this is going to be visible when the user is not logged in.
So I think not here.
And the same thing is also applied for the login.
Just formatting the document here and let's save all these changes.
Now the tests are passing.
So let's verify this one on browser as well.
So let's click to login and let's fill the form user wrong mail.
Com password.
Now the layout is updated and we no longer see the signup and login links.
So we are hiding the links.
But let's add another link here.
Let's display a link for my profile, for a link for the logged in user.
So adding a new test to a component spec.
So in this one it.
Displays my profile link on now bar after successful login.
So we are calling this one set up plugin.
Now we are going to query
a link.
And that link is going to be having the title of my profile.
Let's see my profile link.
And we expect this link to be pretty.
So this is the test.
Let's display the karma first and let's save this one.
The test is passing.
But because I just copied the previous test, I have a typo here.
We expect this my profile link to be true.
Saving it.
Now the test is failing.
And let's fix it.
Let's open the number component.
We are going to display a new link and let's just copy the anchor here.
And this time this will be visible when the authentication state is having this is logged in.
True and title will be my profile and the text will be my profile as well.
By the way, I'm not paying attention to this link at the moment.
I just copied the anchor of login and keeping the router link is this.
We will add a test for that one as well.
Saving it.
So this is passing.
And let's add one more test.
Now we will add a functionality to this link, and whenever we click to that one, we will be seeing
the user page.
So just copying this one, it displays a user page with logged in user ID in URL after clicking my profile
link on our.
So we are logging in querying the link.
And we are going to click to this link, my profile link.
Click.
Then we are going to query the visibility of the user page.
And I'm just coping that part from here.
And pasting here and the visible page will be user page and we also need a short URL.
And previously we did that in in the test.
Let's find that one location.
We were using the location right here and.
Here in this test, it navigates to user page when clicking the username on user list.
So this was checking the ped, so just copying this one and pasting here.
And also let's make sure the response we are receiving like the we are returning a response to this
this logging request.
But it doesn't have anything in the payload.
So let's make sure we update it to have the user ID and so ID will be one.
Username is user one and email is user one at mail comm.
So this information is used in the authentication service.
So when the user is logged in, we are taking that user information from that authentication request
response body and.
We are going to use this ID in the URL.
So in the test we should be returning that value.
Otherwise those information will be undefined and we wouldn't be inserting the URL in this test.
So let's save this one.
So this is failing.
At the moment it is failing.
Let's fix it.
Now we are going to update the link in an hour.
So this was a link to the login, but now it's going to be a link to a user.
And then we are going to append authentication service logged in user ID.
So user slash logged in user ID saving this.
I made a typo here.
I need to.
Raptors with a single court.
So single court then adding the next part, saving it.
Now the tests are passing and let's test it on browser.
This is another issue we will fix later.
So in each restart we are losing the logged in state.
So here let's log in with user one once again.
So now we have this my profile link and when we click to this one, we are navigated to this user's
page user one and the navigation is working.
In the next part we will fix the issue like the the reload will retain the state, the logged in state
and we will implement that part in the next lecture.